[MUSIC]
We just discussed two TD control methods,
Sarsa and Q-learning.
In this lesson, we'll talk about another
TD control method called expected Sarsa.
By the end of this video, you will be able
to explain the expected Sarsa algorithm.
[MUSIC]
Recall the Bellman equation for
action-values.
Here you can see the expectation
over values of possible next
state action pairs.
Breaking this expectation apart,
we see a sum over possible next states
as well as possible next action.
Sarsa estimates this expectation
by sampling the next date from
the environment and
the next action from its policy.
But the agent already knows this policy,
so
why should it have to
sample its next action?
Instead, it should just compute
the expectation directly.
In this case,
we can take a weighted sum of the values
of all possible next actions.
The weights are the probability of taking
each action under the agents policy.
Explicitly computing the expectation
over next actions is the main
idea behind the expected Sarsa algorithm.
Now let's look at the expected
Sarsa's learning update.
Since expected Sarsa is still
based on the Bellman equation for
action values, it uses the familiar
form of learning update.
The algorithm is nearly
identical to Sarsa,
except the T error uses the expected
estimate of the next action
value instead of a sample
of the next action value.
That means that on every time step,
the agent has to average the next
state's action values according to
how likely they are under the policy.
For example,
with the following values and policy,
expected Sarsa would
use a value of 1.4 for
its estimate of the expected
next action value.
However, there's a huge upside to
calculating the expectation explicitly.
Expected Sarsa has a more stable
update target than Sarsa.
Let's look at an example
to make this more clear.
In this example,
the media reward is deterministically 1.
Both Sarsa and expected Sarsa,
start up with a true action values for
the next state.
Even in this idealized case,
the next action sampling that Sarsa does
can cause it to update its
values in the wrong direction.
It relies on the fact that in
expectation across multiple updates,
the direction is correct.
By contrast, expected Sarsas update
targets are exactly correct,
and do not change their estimated
values away from the true values.
In general, expected Sarsas update targets
are much lower variance than Sarsas.
The lower variance comes
with a downside though.
Computing the average over
next actions becomes more
expensive as the number
of actions increases.
When there are many actions, computing
the average might take a long time,
especially since the average has
to be computed every time step.
In this video, we show that
the expected Sarsa algorithm explicitly
computes the expectation under its policy,
which is more expensive than sampling but
has lower variance.